---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2002-12-25 23:33:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/22
slug: '22'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 22
---

**Star Trek: When your producer is the Nemesis**
  
There is apparently nothing left in the Star Trek world of ideas. After being disappointed by the last 3 Trek movies, I decided to wait and see how this one would be reviewed by my friends. I've gotten mixed reviews. My Trek fan friends have said it's not the best, but still worth seeing. Since I hated the ones they liked, how will I feel about the ones the somewhat liked?
  

  
Then my brother and I talked about it. He saw it and didn't like it much. Not for the same reasons that the others weren't impressed, but because rolling around in that amazing story mind of his are 3 Trek scripts that all would have surpassed Nemesis or any of the other Next Generation movies. He described them and I was amazed. They were great and they proved that producers Rick Berman and Brannon Braga need to pass on the helm. In light of the paltry $30 million Nemesis has made towards it's $90 million budget, I think Paramount may just take that idea to heart.
  

  
The next conversation centered around what is the best Star Trek movie.
  

  
"2 or 6?" Orion asked.
  

  
"That's hard because I really loved 6, but I'd have to go with 2."
  

  
"No. 6 is the best."
  

  
"Why do you say that?"
  

  
"Because it's the only one that accomplishes Star Trek's stated purpose. Star Trek has always been a window into our own world. The Klingons were the Russions. Earth represented the US. The Federation is the UN. Star Trek 6 is the only one that acomplishes that goal. It deals with the end of the Cold War and how former enemies will relate to each other now that they are not at war. It also deals the Captain Kirk's racism towards the Klingons."
  

  
"'I've never forgiven them for the death of my son.'"
  

  
"Yeah. None of the other movies do that."
  

  
"Plus it is a better bridge between the Old Generation and the Next, much more so than Star Trek: Generations. But you also have to look at 2 as changing Star Trek forever. The Generation movies are just long episodes. Star Trek 2 changed everything. You had a great enemy."
  

  
"They brought Kahn back from the original series and closed that chapter nicely."
  

  
"In Star Trek 2 you had the death of a major character. Nobody did that back then. This was a first. It was huge. Then the story continued in 3 and 4."
  

  
"Yeah a good story arc over several films."
  

  
"With 3 you had the death of Kirk's son, which ties into 6. Plus the blew up the Enterprise. Think about this. I was watching it a while back and realized this was the first time they did that. Now they do it all the time."
  

  
"They blew it up 5 times in one episode."
  

  
"Yeah, but this was the first time it had happened. People must have been shocked. 'What have I done?' 'The same thing you've always done: Turned death into a fighting chance for life.' Plus Christopher Lloyd was a great villian."
  

  
"Yeah."
  

  
So that's the long story. The short story is that Orion is right. Star Trek 6: The Undiscovered Country is the best Trek movie because it is the only one to follow Trek's purpose. Give us a look at our world through the glasses of science fiction. All good science fiction has truly been that. And every one of Orion's story ideas come at Star Trek from that angle. I can't tell you the ideas he has, but they all surpass what's being put out now.
  

  
So here's my list of the Star Treks from best to worst (I've left off Nemesis since I haven't seen it):
  
Star Trek 6: The Undiscovered Country
  
Star Trek 2: The Wrath of Kahn
  
Any Star Trek movie Orion would write.
  
Star Trek 3: The Search for Spock
  
Star Trek 4: The Voyage Home
  
Star Trek 9: Insurrection
  
Star Trek 8: First Contact
  
Star Trek 7: Generations
  
Star Trek: The Motion Picture
  
Star Trek 5: The Final Frontier
