---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2002-11-07 01:12:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/8
slug: '8'
title: Jim Talent Elected
wordpress_id: 8
---

I'm very excited about what happened yesterday. My fellow Missourians stepped out in force and voted for Jim Talent and changed the balance of power in the Senate and changed history. Looking at the statistics by county I'm still amazed that Kansas City votes so strongly Democrat. Sometimes I think I'll have to live here forever just to cancel out someone else's vote!
  

  
I heard David Barton of [Wall Builders](http://www.wallbuilders.com/) on Janet Parshall's America today. He has said before that after the demographics of men and women, evangelical Christians are the next largest voting demographic. Larger than the Republican or Democratic demographics. When we get out and vote _we_ are the ones who change the course of an election. That's what happened in 1994.
  

  
He stated that the places where there were pro-family, pro-traditional values, pro-life candidates, like Jim Talent in Missouri, had high voter turnout. States that didn't have these types of candidates, like Adam Taff (a pro-abortion republican), in Kansas didn't see the same turnout. Wannabe Journalist Peter Jennings and all the other network anchors spent this evening talking about how President Bush made the difference in this election. That it was his, Cheney's and other White House officers stumping for the various candidates that made the difference. If this is true then why didn't Taff win? Why didn't Phil Kline (running for Kansas Attorney General) who was expected to easily win have such a tough time? Bush helped, but the news media still doesn't have a clue that evangelical Christians can swing the vote everytime.
  

  
Unfortunately too few Christians know that either. Janet Parshall said that 25 million Christians are not registered to vote. We are to be salt and light and we're in one of the few countries that established freedom vote.


  

  
The last thing that bothered me this evening is Wannabe Journalist Jennings characterization of what happened yesterday. Mr. Wannabe Journalist Jennings works for ABC which told it's employees (including anchors) that they could not wear an American flag lapel pin after 9-11. Their justification was they wanted to maintain journalisting integrity and unbiased reporting. And yet today Mr. Wannabe Journalist Jennings said today that we were dealing with the "aftermath" of the elections. Aftermath?!? I'm sorry, did a tornado hit? Did an earthquake destroy a city? Did another 9-11 occur? Apparently in Mr. Wannabe Journalist Jennings' mind it must be just as horrible as one of those events that he deemed "aftermath" an approiate title. ABC, where is journalistic integrity and unbiased reporting now?
