---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2002-11-08 20:21:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/11
slug: '11'
title: Cut, cut, cut
wordpress_id: 11
---

**Cut, cut, cut**
  
I just learned from my buddy Rick that Star Wars: Episode II was cut to bring it to IMAX. Apparently one limitation of the IMAX format is that it can only be 120 minutes long. A quick jaunt to IMDb showed that Star Wars: EP 2 was 143 minutes long. They had to cut a full 23 minutes from the movie! Now from watching deleted scenes on my DVDs I know that directors often cut scenes to give them 2-3 less minutes and they talk about how precious screen time is, but how do you go about cutting 23 minutes?
  

  
I began looking around at how much time other movies would have to cut out to accomplish the tack of showing on IMAX. Apollo 13 has already received the IMAX treatment and lost 20 minutes. Lord of the Rings: FOTR would lose 58 minutes. The Matrix, a movie that's dying to be brought to IMAX, would lose 16.
  

  
Now it's hard to say if Lord or Matrix would ever be on IMAX; however, according to TheForce.net several attendess of opening night for Star Wars on IMAX reported being surveyed as to what movies they would most like to see on IMAX. They were given the following list:
  

  
Matrix 2 (oh yeah)
  
Return of the King (oooh yeah)
  
Harry Potter 3 (oh... who cares)
  
Cat in the Hat
  
Star Wars
  
The Empire Strikes Back
  
Return of the Jedi
  
Episode 1: The Phantom Menace
  

  
All but the 2 kiddy movies (Harry and Cat) would probably be cut to accomodate IMAX. Star Wars in it's original form would lose a minute and lose 5 in the Special Edition. ESB would lose 4 minutes from the original and 7 from SE. ROTJ would lose 14 and 15 minutes. Not that anyone would miss the so called Special Edition scenes.
  

  
The Phantom Menace would lose a full 13 minutes. If George has any sense, which is a no based on what he did with the movie, he'd find a copy of [The Phantom Edit](http://archive.salon.com/ent/movies/feature/2001/11/05/phantom_edit/) and spare us all his IMAX version of it.
