---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2002-12-03 00:02:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/17
slug: '17'
title: Christmas List Rant
wordpress_id: 17
---

**Chrismas List Rant**
  
Where did this idea of Christmas lists come from? Are people so rude that they will only accept gifts on their list? Will they refuse items not on their list? Or just snub the giver for the next year until they repent with an approved gift? Or is it the other way? Are givers afraid to buy gifts for fear that they will not get the right gift? Shouldn't the giver put some thought into the other person and know what kind of gift they would like? Shouldn't the getter remember that it's the thought that counts and not care what the gift is? I don't care either way! I just wanted to rant. But here is my...
  

  
**2002 Christmas Gift List**
  
Please remember that I'm becoming a tech minimalist (still must make pilgrimage to Cupertino), so I'm not into "stuff." The more "stuff" I get the less "stuff" I want. Someday I may have it all and becom so completely self-actualized that I don't want any of it like Bill Gates. Oh wait. Anyway, the smaller the "stuff" the better.
  

  
Clothing:
  
Old Navy Performance Fleece
  
Solid-colored dress shirts (15 neck, 36 arm; good luck)
  
Khaki Pants (32x34)
  
Any other clothes from Old Navy
  

  
Stuff that would be cool to have, but not really cause I wouldn't use it that much and I wouldn't know where to put it:
  
eTrex GPS
  
Apple AirPort Card
  
Paintball Gun & Mask
  
Foosball table
  
Air Hockey table
  
Ping pong table
  

  
X-Box Games:
  
Mech Assault
  
Star Wars: Jedi Knight 2: Jedi Outcast
  
SSX Tricky
  

  
Way too practical:
  
Landware's Pocket Quicken for Palm OS
  

  
Ultimate Gift:
  
Something not on this list.
