---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2002-12-16 12:34:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/20
slug: '20'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 20
---

**Bond, James "Agent for Cultural Change" Bond**
  
Over Thanksgiving I caught a Bond marathon on TNN. I was struck by the moral vacuum of the James Bond movies. Then I caught [this article](http://www.breakpoint.org/Breakpoint/ChannelRoot/FeaturesGroup/OnlineFeatures/Agents%20of%20Change.htm) about how you can portray an immoral message, sexual promiscuity, and have audiences accept it as long as the (Hollywood talk now) "production values" were high. Meaning if you wrap all the bad stuff in a good story, expensive sets and actors, and talented crew you can attract even Christians to your warped world view. It strikes me that NBC has followed this pattern with shows like Mad About You, Friends, Will and Grace, West Wing and Scrubs.
  

  
Now I know I may be stepping on some peoples toes when I mention those shows, but ther are some serious problems with them. I was very bugged by the second to last season of Mad About You when Jamie and Paul decided it was time to leave each other because they didn't believe that love could last forever. Friends and Scrubs are the funniest shows on TV but they are filled with sexuality. I actually had to turn Scrubs off the other night which shocked even me. West Wing has been nominated for Emmys over and over again, but portrays people of faith as enemies to be done away with.
  

  
Then the author talks about how Christian's should follow Bond's lead:
  

  


<blockquote>Christians are seeking to scale the wall of popular culture and produce movies, music, and other kinds of entertainment. They should resist the temptation to complain about whatever resistance they encounter based on their Christian beliefs or the content of their work, or to use the medium merely as a means of proclaiming their message. Hollywood and other media centers mostly care about talent and quality work, because that's the stuff that makes the dollars that keeps them in business. Audiences of the James Bond films have always known they will be in for a great escape while they are in the theater. Culture-makers promoting more virtuous content can't hide mediocre work behind good intentions—they've got to aim for the best product they can achieve. Quality work will get you a hearing. 
  

  
More virtuously oriented filmmakers don't have to forego their morality. They just have to remember one thing: Don't tell us your philosophy—let the characters show it by their actions and deeds. Note that Bond is never in the position of having to defend his behavior; he just practices it.</blockquote>


  

  

