---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2002-12-25 23:08:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/21
slug: '21'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 21
---

**TTT Review**
  
Well The Two Towers has been out in theatres for a week now. I had the priveledge of seeing it and thought I'd post my review thoughts. It was a great movie and I would recommend it to anyone whether you've read the books or not it can be enjoyed.
  

  
[Spoilers] highlight below to see
  
The movie starts our with an amazing introduction. It recaps the "death" of Gandalf as seen in FOTR. But instead of showing the remaining fellowship running from Moria it follows Gandalf into the depths as he continues to battle the Balrog down the shaft. An amazing scene. Then Frodo wakes up and writes it off as a dream, but those of us who have read the book know better.
  

  
Those of us who have read the book also know that Frodo should show up yet. TTT the book was separated into Book 3 and Book 4. Book 3 dealt with Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Pippin and Merry. Book 4 with Frodo, Sam and Smeagol. For purposes of movie making it is very difficult to do this, so they were mixed (as expected). I would be tempted to get a copy of all three movies when they come out and reedit them as the books had it, but I would need a lot of hard drive space.
  

  
Helms Deep is an amazing battle scene. Very unrealistic in some parts; a Dwarf and a Man against a thousand Urk-Hai was hard for me to imagine.
  

  
But I was disappointed by 6 things:
  
1) The Elves showed up at Helms Deep. I don't know if PJ is just trying to be very muticultural, but this was not in the book.
  

  
2) Then Ents don't show up at Helms Deep. They were decisive in the winning of the battle, but completely eliminated from it in the movie.
  

  
3) Then Ents aren't aware that Saruman is killing the trees. Although depicted wonderfully, the Ents are not aware of Saruman's doings. Because they don't know, they won't declare war on Saruman at Isengard or at Helms Deep. It isn't until he stumbles upon the dead trees that Fangorn himself becomes so upset that he declares war. Rather "hasty" if you ask me.
  

  
4) Faramir!!! This is the biggest problem with the movie. Faramir, brother of the fallen Boromir, was changed completely. It went well for a while, in fact some scenes from the book I never expected to see, but PJ did them. But then Faramir desires the ring and decides to take Frodo to his father. Faramir was not the war-mongerer that Boromir was. He didn't desire the power that the ring falsely promised. Therefore he left Frodo to complete his anti-quest and even gave him food.
  

  
In the movie Faramir is worse than Boromir was. Taking Frodo as far as Osgiliath! Osgiliath? Where is that in the books? I wouldn't have minded if I could find the purpose for this side track, but I couldn't. The elves at Helms Deep emphasised that all the races fates are entangled within each other and that one time they knew this and fought together and now they recogize their shared fates once more. However, I could find no justification in the Osgiliath scenes. The only thing worthwhile that happened there was Sam's "we're part of a great story" speech which was wonderful, but could have been done without butchering a great character. I found myself wondering why they contributed so much screen time to this and then...
  

  
5) Left out Shelob. Shelob doesn't show up. I knew this before the movie, but after seeing Osgiliath I wondered why they wasted our time and didn't just put her part into the movie. It would have been a much better ending to Frodo, Sam and Smeagol's TTT journey.
  

  
6) Lastly it doesn't end well. FOTR ended much better leaving you with a feeling that they had wrapped up a mini-story, but there was more coming. This was done by adding a villian, Lurch, who wasn't in the books for Aragorn to defeat, but it was still good. This one does not end as well.
  

  
There was a lot of good though. Legolas continues to be the action hero. Forget Aragorn. He can't grab a running horse and swing around to the opposite side of the horse and into the saddle. PJ did a really good job of showing off how different the races fight and Legolas has all the elegance of the elves. Gimli is mostly comedy relief but is wonderful at it. 
  

  
Smeagol is the most surprising. He was played wonderfully. The FX were great and amazingly convincing. There were only a couple of spots that the lighting seemed off just a bit, but not horribly. (Lighting tends to be what really shows off bad CGI.) PJ captured Smeagol's struggles by shooting him as if he were actually two people and cut back and forth. The problem is that this has been done before and this year in Spiderman. Willem Defoe's conversation with the Green Goblin via a mirror achieved much the same idea and much better. It left PJ looking like a copycat, which is probably unfair.
  
[End Spoilers]
  
Anyway go see it. I'll be taking my wife soon and can't wait for TTT: Extended DVD Release.
