---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2002-11-25 02:03:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/16
slug: '16'
title: Star Wars in IMAX, New Car, The Best Things Come in 3s and BMW Films
wordpress_id: 16
---

**Been a while**
  
Well, it's been over a week since my last post. It's been a very busy week...
  

  
**Star Wars: IMAX**
  
We saw Star Wars: Episode 2 on IMAX. Had a great time but noticed a couple of things: Sound good; Film bad. The sound in an IMAX theatre is just amazing. I heard it toward the beginning and it made me nervous that the sound coming soon for Jango Fett's sonic bombs would be deafening. But as Anakin and Obi-Wan raced through the sky of Coruscant I realized it didn't look right. Then I realized it was because I was watching film. I saw it on film opening night but then had the priviledge of seeing it digitally projected. The images were so crisp, bright and beautiful that I was very disappointed seeing it on film. Also the cuts that were made to fit it to 2 hours were wonderful. The horrible love story is cut out so much that it borders on believable. Of interest, Mr. B, informed me that they are coming out with a 2.5 hour reel from IMAX that theatres can upgrade. That would make most movies available for IMAX.
  

  
**Alero**
  
Well, the Explorer was about to rollover 100K and starting to show it's age. We went to a couple of dealerships and Superior Chevy gave us an amazing deal. The paid off the Explorer which means they gave us $5000 over Blue Book value. They gave us a new Oldsmobile Alero. It's nice to have a fuel-effecient car. We're paying about $60 more per month but we'll save about $80-100 in gas I think.
  

  
**The best things come in 3s**
  
My brother called tonight. He is part of a film group that everyone gets the same assignment each month and most go and create a short film about that subject. This months subject is the number 3. Sounds like a Sesame Street skit. He has decided to borrow my Digital8 camera while he is up and film a documentary on the 3 O's (my brother, sister and me). Should be fun. I'll probably end up hamming for the camera and none of it will come off natural.
  

  
**But what I really want is a BMW...**
  
I never understood car commercials. There is nothing in them that makes me want to go out and purchase their car. And then there came [BMW Films](http://www.bmwfilms.com). After watching them I was amazed at the power of the cars they used, most of them unmodified so they could show off what the cars can do. I wanted one for all the reasons that I'd never use it for. Now Season 2 is out. Check 'em out.
  

  
Originally created by David Fincher, director of Se7en, The Game, Fight Club, Panic Room and Mission Impossible 3, the series stars Clive Owens who is just wonderfully mysterious.
