---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-10-29 05:34:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/64
slug: '64'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 64
---

**Indiana Jones**
  
In honor of the Indiana Jones trilogy being released on DVD, my brother and I began to think of all the ways that George and Steve have taken a crap on our childhoods. And how they had the potential to do it again with Indy. So we came up with a list of the top ways G & S could screw up the Indy moves. (Please note: anyone who has no sense of satiric humor, please skip this post).
  

  
Top 10 ways George and Steve could have screwed up the Indy trilogy:
  
10. Temple of Doom Bankock Palace Walls are replaced by windows and rest of city is now shown using CGI.
  
9. All Nazis are replaced with CGI characters.
  
8. CGI used to create rest of Petra that they couldn't afford when they made the Last Crusade.
  
7. When Indy is confronted by large, scimitar wielding man in the market in Raiders of the Lost Arc, Indy actually shoots him only after being shot at first.
  
6. Short Round is now a CGI character with a Jamaican accent: "Yousa hold on to ya potatoes."
  
5. During the human sacrafice scenes in Temple of Doom, a CGI Audrey 2 emerges from the lava pit.
  
4. Sean Connery is not actually Indy's father because Indy was immaculatley conceived.
  
3. Indy's gun is replaced with a walkie-talkie. ([Credit where credit is due; and what made me decide to write this list.](http://www.pvponline.com/archive.php3?archive=20030508))
  
2. Midiclorian count is what determines if you'll be an archeologist.
  

  
And the number one way George and Steve could continue to crap on our childhood:
  
George announces he will write and direct the fourth Indy movie.
