---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-09-29 03:02:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/57
slug: '57'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 57
---

**Scrambled Living Room Eggs**
  
One of the pleasures of a free Saturday is making breakfast for Ora and Enid. This weekend, I made scrambled eggs. I would have made french toast but we were out of bread. I had Ora help me get the eggs out. Then I placed one in his hand and put my hand over his to guide it. We took each one a broke it on the edge of a mixing bowl, widened the opening with our fingers and let the insides drop into the bowl. We repeated this until there were six in the bowl. Then I placed a wisk in his hand and we scrambled them. We then took our mix to the stove poured it into the pan and then I showed him how to use a spatula to make scrambled eggs.
  

  
One of the joys of Ora's age is that he's learning an amazing amount; however, he has no context for when or where this knowledge should be used. That's how we ended up with scrambled eggs on our living room floot. Apparently while I was at my church board meeting today, Ora removed an egg from the fridge and took it to the living room. He tapped on the floor just as I had shown him the day before and then used his fingers to widen the break and then dumped the contents on the floor. Enid said he very methodically did each step as I had shown him.
  

  
I'm amazed he remembered how to do it and that he has the dexterity to do it. Now we just need to teach him location, location, location.
