---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-04-04 03:44:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/29
slug: '29'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 29
---

**War Talk**
  
I was talking to my brother the other night about the war with Iraq. While we disagree about whether we should be fighting this war or not, we agreed that the greater danger lied in the idea of using Iraq as a model for other coutries in the mid-east. While I support the President's action because I do believe that Iraq's ability to create "weapons of mass destruction" coupled with terrorists willing to carry those weapons into the US is a true threat. However, how the Islam world views the US because of this action could create decades of resentment in other mid-east nations even if we successfully win over the hearts of the Iraqi people for liberating them.
  

  
Even if Iraq goes as planned, will Iraq become "a model of democracy"? The mid-east already has a "model of democracy:" Isreal. Isreal has been a democratic state for decades. This has not convinced it's neighbors to suddenly hold free elections. The "model" that is being proposed is not to show everyone how great democracy is, but rather to pre-emptively strike nations that threaten the US as a superpower and then establish democracy in those nations. This plan was first proposed by George "41" Bush's staff in '91. An early copy of the plan was leaked to the press and was so controversial that 41 asked, then Secretary of Defense, Dick Cheney to tone down the final proposal. What emerged was a plan of containment rather than pre-emption.
  

  
The writer of the plan is Paul Wolfowitz  who is now number 2 at the Pentagon under Rumsfeld. After 9|11, this plan resurrected itself into what is now the "Bush Doctrine" (referring now to 43).
  

  
Much of this comes from a [Frontline episode](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/iraq/) ([Transcript](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/iraq/etc/script.html) | [Video](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/iraq/view/)) that I highly recommend.
  

  
My brother both agreed that though public support was high for our actions in Iraq (despite what Peter the-so-called-journalist Jennings and Dan we'd-Rather-he-was-still-with-Sadaam are showing), it would be difficult for 43's administration to rouse support for a war against another mid-east Islamic nation. Carrying the Bush Doctrine much further will be difficult if not impossible.
  

  
However, I fear this means that we will not be able to gain support to intervene in countries where we should be involved; not for security reasons, but for moral reasons. Sudan for some reason never seems to make it into the publics eye, but now the war in Iraq has focused so much attention to the mid-east that atrocities against Christians have resumed in Sudan. If ever there was a place were ethnic and religious cleansing was occuring Sudan is that country. Will 43 be able to gain support to work in countries where we must bring peace now that he has spend a lot of his political capital in Iraq? I've seen him do things that have amazed me and ney-sayers in the press so maybe he can. But I'm really scared that our brothers and sisters are not going be heard.
