---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-04-03 04:42:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/28
slug: '28'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 28
---

**Counting Blue Cars**
  
Caught in a traffic jam at 5:17 this afternoon. I rolled down the windows; the breeze coming through from my left and out the window which my arm hung out was cooler than what my car was pushing out without AC. It's April 2nd; I'm not about to start turning the AC on.
  

  
An overweight gentleman on a motorcycle eased by to my right with a cigarette in his mouth. I wondered which of the 3 would kill him first.
  

  
A familiar smell invaded through the passenger window. I looked to discover an empty livestock semi-truck passing. Though empty the smell of old manure still hung from it. The smell didn't repulse me. Rather it reminded me of life in the country; of visiting friends who lived on pig farms; of my first job milking cows at 5 am. Strange how 8 years in the city doesn't change the senses to something that would be repulsive to most.
  

  
I breathed it in and reminisced.
  

  
**Music in the Night**
  
5 and I were strolling around the UMKC campus last night. As we passed by the new parking garage, the sound of a low brass trio bellowed out; the garage's open floors amplifying the music for all around to hear.
  

  
As we neared Grant Hall the sould of a lone clarinet drowned out all others. I could have spent forever on the cool spring night listening to the music of young students.
