---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-05-29 03:33:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/36
slug: '36'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 36
---

**Ora admitting when he's wrong? That would be highly illogical, Captain**
  
Went to Blockbuster and rented Star Trek:Nemesis this past week. I was very surprised. It is by far the best of the Next Generations 4 movies. While it wasn't on par with Star Trek 2, 3 or 6 it was still up there in the top half. Hmm. I hadn't thought about before I started this blog but perhaps it's time for a relisting of the favorite Star Treks, but we'll save that for later. I was pleasantly suprised, because it was the first Star Trek Generations movie that didn't run like an overly long episode. The whole look was also different probably due to a new director.
  

  
Now, that isn't to say that it's a wonderful movie. The Star Trek series still needs some work, but with 26 years worth of television seasons and 10 movies, there is very little new ground left to trod. If there is one thing I wish they had done was play up the battle between equals of Picard and Shinzon.
  

  
This was the first Star Trek movie since 4 that I have not seen in the theatre. I really with I had now; the special effects would have been pretty good on the big screen.
  

  
And now the list:
  
ST 2: The Wrath of Kahn
  
ST 3: The Search for Spock
  
ST 6: The Undiscovered Country
  
ST: Nemesis
  
ST 4: The Voyage Home
  
ST: Insurrection
  
ST: First Contact
  
ST: Generations
  
ST 5: The Final Frontier
  
ST: The Motion Picture
