---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-08-05 11:07:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/43
slug: '43'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 43
---

**Are Reagan and Limbaugh the new Hitler and Mussolini?**
  
My brother sent me an article in a University of California (Berkeley) publication about how a new research study shows similarities in politically conservative thinking. The article ([read article](http://www.berkeley.edu/news/media/releases/2003/07/22_politics.shtml)) then compares Ronald Reagan and Rush Limbaugh to Hitler and Mussolini. Here's some of it:
  


<blockquote>some of the common psychological factors linked to political conservatism include:
  

> 
>   * Fear and aggression
> 
  

>   * Dogmatism and intolerance of ambiguity
> 
  

>   * Uncertainty avoidance
> 
  

>   * Need for cognitive closure
> 
  

>   * Terror management
> ...
  

  
Concerns with fear and threat, likewise, can be linked to a second key dimension of conservatism - an endorsement of inequality, a view reflected in the Indian caste system, South African apartheid and the conservative, segregationist politics of the late Sen. Strom Thurmond (R-South S.C.).
  

  
Disparate conservatives share a resistance to change and acceptance of inequality, the authors said. Hitler, Mussolini, and former President Ronald Reagan were individuals, but all were right-wing conservatives because they preached a return to an idealized past and condoned inequality in some form. Talk host Rush Limbaugh can be described the same way.</blockquote>


  
I was insulted! How dare they compare such great men to dictators/murderers of the past? Not to mention how it reflects on anyone who considers them politically conservative. 
  

  
I commented on this to my brother, and he soon found [more information](http://www.calpatriot.org/july03/072703abramyan.html). Apparently, the article doesn't mention Reagon, Rush, Hitler or Mussolini. The author of the article threw in all the names to make his point, not the points that the article makes! 
  

  


<blockquote>“We are demanding an apology from the University for attempting to promote political bias in their press release and misrepresenting the study.  Rather than constructively addressing the issues, they attempt to offend their opponents through rhetorical spin.”
  

  
The press release is also under fire because of correlations drawn between political figures such as Adolf Hitler, former United States president Ronald Reagan and Talk Show host Rush Limbaugh who were never mentioned in the study.</blockquote>


  
The link to the article from the Univerisities home page has been removed and the article was completely rewritten. It amazes me that with reporting like this some people have the audacity to say that news media in this country leans conservatively.
  

