---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-11-21 15:52:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/70
slug: '70'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 70
---

**Max Day 3, Olympic Oval**
  
The yearly special event was last night. Macromedia bussed us all up and drove us to the Olympic Oval where the speed scating events of the 2002 Olympics took place. It was amazing. Pleanty of food and drink and for the first 30 minutes adult and children speed skaters gave us a demonstration of their speed. After that they opened the "World's Fastest Ice" for us to try our stuff. B.J., Bryan, Jim and myself donned hockey skates and moved around the oval. It was amazing to think that Gold medals were one on the ice I was now skating on! What an experience.
  

  
You could also try curling, a hockey slap shot and aerial bungee jumping. B.J. and Bryan stood in line for the slap shot. I wasn't interested in standing that long in line for anything, so I wandered around watching the nights activities. So I didn't actuall do any aerial bungee jumping, but it was interesting. Essentially the attach bungee cords to your hips and you jump on an inflatable bubble and you can do flips and tricks. They use it to train snowboarders safely.
  

  
In the middle of it all was Battle of the DJs. 3 DJs continually going through the music. The subwoofers alone stood 5 feet tall each; your whole body shook when you stood in front of them and the boom, boom, boom. Behind the DJs were old black-and-white monster movies.
