---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-09-22 22:20:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/49
slug: '49'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 49
---

**$3,409 and 8 feet**
  
Jason formed and he and James gave a speach once about the third-generation website. I don't think that's quite the term he created for it, but here's the idea. A first-generation website is brochure-ware; companies took what they currently had on a brochure and presented it for the public to view over the web. Then came the second generation of websites, where web sites mirrored the business practices currently employed by many companies. Amazon.com sold books just like Barnes & Noble and Borders were doing. Sears sold clothing and applicances  online just as they were doing in malls. A few companies added new spins on old ideas: Netflix rented DVDs but unlike Blockbuster on a subscription basis with no late fees. 
  

  
The third-generation website brought something new. It brought the ability to do something that would have been impractical or impossible without the Internet. Some companies saw opportunities to sell products or services that they could not have done before. Barnes and Noble began selling used books. This is something that would have been very impractical to create the floor space and find the supplies to do in a normal Brick-And-Morter store, but online the lost cost of entry made it possible to do something that was impractical before. According to Jason "an LTL carrier, like Yellow, could use technology to find shippers to cover its own backhauls. So today there might be too few shipments from Cleveland to Des Moines to fill up all the equipment that needs to go there to keep the network flowing. In the old days, that equipment would just go empty. Now they can post those lanes as specials on the Internet and get people to either ship early or redirect shipments that would have gone to truckload carriers."
  

  
I say all of this because I was reminded of it when thinking about this post. I was planning on talking about the cost that would be involved in purchasing all the seasons of ones favorite television series. Part of the reason that I was pondering this is because of the abundance of television shows on DVD that were never available in the past. It was then I realized that they were never around before because VHS tapes made it impractical to purchase an entire season, let alone every season of a show. DVDs were a technology that overcame the impracticalities.
  

  
The first impracticality is the time limitation on a VHS tape. The most you can fit on a single VHS tape is two one-hour episodes. An average seasonis between 23 and 26 episodes. That means for a complete season it would require 13 tapes. With DVDs it would only require half that even with special features added. This also made it cost prohibitive  to buy that many VHS tapes (typically priced at $20-25 each).
  

  
Second is the size of VHS tapes. A VHS tape is 1-inch wide. With packaging it's about 1 1/8 inches wide. This means to contain an entire 26-episode season would require 14 5/8 of shelf space. A well packaged DVD could contain the entire season in only 1 3/8 inches.
  

  
So now we have our favorite shows on DVD, but how can we afford them all:
  

  
Star Trek:TNG Seasons 1-7
  
$67 + 94 + 94 + 73 + 94 + 94 + 70 = $586 (MSRP: $980)
  

  
Star Trek: Deep Space 9 Seasons 1-4 
  
($60 + 70 + 70 + 70 = $270 (MSRP: $520)
  

  
24 Seasons 1-2 
  
$40 + 46 = $86 (MSRP: $130)
  

  
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation Seasons 1-2
  
$53 + 50 = $103 (MSRP: $180)
  

  
Simpsons Seasons 1-3
  
$24 + 32 + 32 = $88 (MSRP: $140)
  

  
M*A*S*H Seasons 1-4
  
$21 + 28 + 24 + 27 = $100 (MSRP: $160)
  

  
Little House on the Prairie Seasons 1-2
  
$33 + 34 = $67 (MSRP: $100)
  

  
Smallville 1
  
$48 (MSRP: $65)
  

  
Sub-Total of Currently Available Seasons: $1,348 (MSRP: $2275)
  

  
Assuming the prices are right around where they are for the current seasons here's future ones to be released:
  
Star Trek: Deep Space 9 Seasons 5-7
  
$70 x 3 = $210 (MSRP: $390)
  

  
24 Season 3
  
$45 (MSRP: $70)
  

  
CSI: Crime Scene Investigation Season 3
  
$50 (MSRP: $90)
  

  
Simpsons Seasons 4-16
  
$32 x 13 = $416 (MSRP: $650)
  

  
M*A*S*H Seasons 5-12
  
$25 x 8 = $200 (MSRP: $320)
  

  
Little House on the Prairie Seasons 3-10
  
$34 x 8 = $272 (MSRP: $400)
  

  
Star Trek: The Original Series Seasons 1-3
  
$94 x 3 = $282 (MSRP: $390)
  

  
Enterprise Season 1-7
  
$70 x 7 = $490 (MSRP: $910)
  

  
Smallville 2-3
  
$48 x 2 = $96 (MSRP: $130)
  

  
Sub-Total of Future Seasons: $2,061 (MSRP: $3,350)
  

  
Total $3,409 (MSRP $5,625)
  

  
These are the best prices I could find and on the future ones there  are a lot of assumptions. For instance, we don't really know how much Star Trek:TOS or Enterprise will cost when they come out or if Enterprise will last 7 seasons like the other Star Trek series. (For any Trekkers noticing that Star Trek: Voyager was omitted from the list, yes, that was intentional.) Also several series are ongoing (Simpsons, 24, CSI, and Smallville) and I don't know how many seasons they will last.
  

  
Oh, and the whole collection would be 8' 1 5/8" long. I'm going to need more shelf space.
  

