---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-08-11 12:09:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/45
slug: '45'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 45
---

**Being Illiterate Stinks**
  
I've always regretted that I read so slowly. I labor through large Tom Clancy books and with a family now rarely have the opportunity to sit for a period of time long enough to get into a book. I've recently started going to the library and finding a large selection of unabridged books on tape or CD. There is a limited number of CD books, but thanks to a tape player my father-in-law let me have, I can listen to tapes now too (no tape player in car).
  

  
Suddenly, the world of books has opened wider to me than it ever had before. For the first time in a long while, I am thrilled at the idea of all the books I could read... er listen... er hear. I've torn through several already including some that I never thought I would read or like, but found compelling.
  

  
I wanted to share with you what I've read, argh, listened to with commentary. Before I do, I'll explain that I'm trying to pick up a biography, a classic fiction and a modern fiction book every time I go. So you'll see those groups as I go through.
  

  
_George Washington: A Biography_
  
I'm amazed at the divine providence that led the man to lead our nation. In his early miltary career during the French and Indian War (the only war named after the losers), he ran headlong into a battle in which his soldiers were retreating. His hat was shot 4 times and he was unscathed. During the Revolutionary War he had two horses shot out from under him.
  

  
It was also interesting to see he how much he doubted himself. The limelight of history almost makes this hard to believe.
  

  
_Skipping Christmas_
  
One of Grishams few non-law books. Hillarious.
  

  
_The Runaway Jury_
  
Read, argh, listened to this one because there is a movie being made about it. The bad guys are crooks. The good guys are crooks. Hard to tell who is worse, but they all get away with it.
  

  
_The Brethren_
  
Another Grisham. Everyone's a crook again. Everyone get's away with it again.
  

  
_Timeline_
  
This is a Crichton and follows the Crichton formula: Amazing new technology. Corporation wants to use it for entertainment and make tons of money. Tons of techno-babble to make it sound plausible. Everything goes wrong. People die. "Oh sure. At first it's all oohs and aahs. Then people start dying."
  

  
Although he hasn't had an original idea in years, I can't help loving Crichton books.
  

  
_The Invisible Man_
  
Classic sci-fi and the original Crichton style. At the time it was written, I wonder if all the talk of chemicals that could make the pigment of a man's body translucent seemed plausible, much as creating dinosaurs out of recovered DNA or time travel through Quantum Physics. 
  

  
What I really found interesting was that when the movie Hollow Man came out it was about a man who found when he couldn't be seen he would do all sorts of evil. I was really apalled by this because my impression of the Invisible Man was of a type of super hero. He is not. He was quite vindictive and evil, plotting to create a reign of terror and kill as he pleased.
  

  
After reading this I became aware of the movie _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_. This movie stars many of the classic characters from literature and the Invisible Man is one of them.
  

  
_Picture of Dorien Grey_
  
Recommended by my wife. This character also appears in _The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen_. Essentially Dorian is a sweet innocent boy who is swayed into a sinful lifestyle by a psychologist who considers his decent and interesting case study. But Dorian's sins and age do not affect him physically but are manifested in a painting of him. For 20 years he remains beautiful and untouched by his sin, while his picture bears what age and sin have done to his body as well as his soul.
  

  
It's written by Oscar Wilde and while I've avoided stuff by him because of modern fascination with the man, I found his only book to be quite interesting.
  

  
_The Old Man and the Sea_
  
How could an old man catching a fish be this interesting! I hung on every word!
  

  
_The Beach_
  
I hate Leonard D... whatever as much as the next guy, but the movie that is based off this book is apparently much different. The author is the same one who wrote the current movie _28 Days Later..._. It's a beautifully written book. The language is as harsh as any Soprano's episode, and very heavy drug use. The ending is probably the most disturbing and bloddy thing I've ever heard. My mouth dropped open in horror. It's been a long time since I was shocked and I love to be shocked. 
  

  
It reminded me of what I've always thought _Lord of the Flies_ was probably like. My brother described this and _Flies_ as "stories about paradise where someone is just human enough to screw it all up." That's about right.
  

  
The other thing that made this book fascinating is it's Gen-X pop-culture references. The author is Gen-X and he constantly makes references to which I could relate (although I'm on the tail end of Gen-X/too old for Gen-Y). He talks about playing Gameboy and other video games and the reacations people have when they die in-game. Some throw up their hands just before they die and say "I'm toast." The author refers to himself as a "rager." At the moment his game character dies, he tosses the contoller and vents his anger. I'm a rager too. He then goes on to discuss the intricacies of fighting a "boss" in a game. I felt I could sit there and talk to him about all the "boss" stuff he left out of the book. He also refers back to Vietnam TV and movies: M*A*S*H, A-Team, Platoon, etc. 
  

  
_Of Mice and Men_
  
Before Oprah made Steinbeck a household name again, I had picked this up. Don't bother. He shoots the stupid guy.
  

  
And now, the list of classics that I want to read, argh, listen to:
  
_Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde_
  
Again, following that _League_ fascination.
  

  
_Dracula_
  
Mina Harker is in _Leauge_. Mom read this to us when we were kids on the road-trip portion of a vacation. She thought she'd read the first few pages to get me into it and then hand it off for me to read myself. The whoe family was hooked. We actually sat in the parking lot of our final destination, not wanting to get out until the final few pages had been finished.
  

  
_20,000 Leagues Under the Sea_
  
Captain Nemo is the tech-guy in _League_.
  

  
_For Whom the Bell Tolls_
  
Another Hemingway.
  

  
_Frankenstein_
  
Mom always said to read 50 pages into a book before giving up on it. I read 50. I gave up. This book sucked, but I want to give it another chance. My brother has enlightened me to some of the meaings of it and I'd like to give it a second go.
  

  
_A Wrinkle in Time_
  
This was the first of many books that I was assigned to read and never did. But it's a classic and I'd like to know what the heck that winged creature on the cover was.
  

  
_Les Mis_
  
The play was good. My brother liked the book. Too bloody big to pick up without a back brace. Wonder how many CDs it will be.
  

  
_Mere Christianity_
  
A classic in Christian apologetics by one of the greatest minds of the previous century.
  

  
_The Untouchables_
  
I don't know why I never finished this book. I liked it. It's actually written by Elliot Ness and is the basis for all the movies and TV shows we see today.
  

  
_Dune_
  
Before the Matrix tried it's hand at Messiah worship in sci-fi, Herbert had Paul Attreides saving the desert planet Arakis.
  

  
And then the biographies:
  
The Presidents of the US (I'm currently on Adams)
  
I don't know very much about the Presidents, so I'm going through them one at a time. I'm finding John Adams to be a kindred spirit. I would have liked to have known him. His personal influence on the shape and destiny of our country is amazing.
  

  
George Washington Carver
  
Einstein
  
Thomas Edison
  
Henry Ford
  
Tesla
  
Martin Luther
  
John Calvin
  
_In the Presence of My Enemies_ (Gracia Burnham)
  

  
Mordern Fiction:
  
_Prey_
  
Same Crichton formula. This time it's nano-technology. This is a technology that has worried me for a while. It has the potentially to be more devastating than anything we've ever created, and some very smart people are asking us to put this one back in Pandora's box. It's almost like it was tailor made to be a Crichton novel.
  

  
_Bear and the Dragon_
  
I've read all Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan novels (and their derivitives) up to this one, so I can't stop now.
  

  
_Red Rabbit_
  
Tom Clancy at it again.
  

  
_Gangs of New York_
  
My brother says this book is nothing like to the movie and recommended it. The same author also has written one called _Gangs of Chicago_.
