---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-09-28 01:33:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/55
slug: '55'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 55
---

**No More Mullings**
  
I was discussing the whole idea of blogs at work Thursday and commented, as I have before, that I don't enjoy reading a lot of "I did this today" blogs. The blogs that I truly enjoy reading are topical. My top 3, excluding my friends (because I visit their blogs daily) from this list, include one from a project manager at Apple who describes one change they made in the current OS each day; Jeremy Allaire, creator of Macromedia ColdFusion, and his discussions of emerging Internet trends; and a Kansas City bicycle advocate.
  

  
If I turn the spotlight to myself I find that my blog is "I did this today." It can be interesting for my friends to know what I'm up do, but more and more I'm thinking that it's a poor excuse for not talking to them. So I'm forgoing the old blog. I considered just closing its doors completely, but I enjoy the process of writing. So as of today the blog has changed from "I did this today" to topical.
  

  
How does one pick a topic? I've considered several topics over the course of a few months. Cool technology coming down the road was one. I've done several posts about this, but anyone who is interested in this can find the info pretty quickly on their own. Why do I need to raise a flag and say I found it first? Another was my walk with the Lord, but this is rather personal and painfully inadequate to even have a short post about. Others I can't really talk about.
  

  
One topic that has continually come to mind involves projects that are going on around Kansas City that I find fascinating. The Grandview Triangle redesign, the Riverfront Heritage Trail, the spur line from the Katy Trail into Kansas City. As I look at all these projects, I find that my interest in them centers around biking/alternative transportation methods. The triangle redesign when completed will have biking/walking trails that they plan to connect to Overland Park trails; the Riverfront Heritage Trail is going to be an amazing and beautiful path when it's finished; and if a spur trail from KC to the Katy Trail is ever completed, I would literally (in the correct use of the word) be able to bike from my driveway to the Gateway Arch in St. Louis.
  

  
I began searching for blogs out there regarding biking, and there are woefully few of them. That is something that also put the idea in my mind. There's only one flaw in my plan: I don't bike. More acurately to anyone looking in on my life it would appear that I don't bike. Although I've biked across Kansas 3 times and done several other small trips, I haven't biked nearly as much as I would have liked. But lately I've been feeling the urge to jump back onto my bike. I'd like to do another Bike Across Kansas in 2004 or 2005. So that's my plan. I'm getting back on my bike and I'm going to let you know how it's going and everything that I can about what is happening in biking in KC.
  

  
But I'd also like to let everyone know what's happening with Ora 5 and the newest baby. What to do? What to do? Why not a dual purpose blog? I can talk about biking and talk about being a father. The two would hopefully overlap quite a bit! So that's it: Biker and Father. Hmm, maybe I will keep mulling: Mullings of a Biker and Father.


  

  


To visually aid in this new format, I've placed colored backgrounds behind the posts. Biking posts will have a blue background as this one does. (I'm color blind, so if this isn't blue, somebody please let me know. Thanks.)


  

  


Posts about being a father will have a yellow background. I couldn't very well do blue or pink. If I had a girl she'd be offended the background was blue and Ora 5 would be... well, his favorite color seems to be pink right now.


  

  


If I simply cannot resist the urge to post something outside of those two topics, I'll have a grey backround for those.
  

  
So, there it is. Off into a brave, new, more specific world of blogging. I hope everyone (both of you) still enjoy reading these.
