---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-05-25 02:33:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/32
slug: '32'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 32
---

**Upcoming Posts**
  
If you write something down, does that make it a commitment? I'm going under that premise tonight. Here's the blogs I have upcoming. Now I'll have to blog about them.
  

  
The Complete Cheapskate by Mary Hunt
  
Matrix Review
  
Nemesis Mini-Review/Commentary/Boy was Ora wrong not to see this one in the theatre (yes I'm going Brit)
  
Rolling Hills Zoo
  

  
**Ora, we didn't think it was possible for you to be more of a cheapskate**
  
Enid picked up the book _The Complete Cheapskate_ at the library a couple of weeks ago. We're tired of living paycheck to paycheck and looking for a better way. She had heard of this book before and we started reading through it together. Essentially, Mary got her and her husband $100,000 into debt and had to find a way out of it. Her husband was a banker and lost his job because of all the bad checks she was writing. After clawing her way out of debt she wrote this book.
  

  
I thought I'd step you through the parts we've discovered so far, but don't think this is a replacement for actually reading her book. I had tried Larry Burkett's method, but found it rather unhelpful. Let me contrast the two. Larry Burkett's method: Here's how to create a budget. Now stick to it. Gee, thanks Larry. Mary's Method:
  

  
1. Start tithing. The first recommendation she gives is to start giving. She says 10%. If you start giving, it will be a blessing in your life and will make you further rely on God for everything. This part is already being done, so I'll move on to step...
  

  
2. Start saving. 10%. Mary says that most of us plan to put whatever is left over at the end of the month in savings, but we never have anything at the end of the month. So if we put it in at the beginning of the month, we won't spend it. I think Mary has been reading my mind. I found myself thinking that exact thing and it not working. So I had started a savings account that automatically deposited the money when I get my paycheck. Although I had started saving some, it's no where near 10%. I'm not sure if she means 10% gross or net pay. Since the tithe is on the gross and she references income taxes as an expense we should address in our monthly spending plan (more on that later), I'm assuming she means gross. Which means I'm even further away than I thought. She does say you can start small and increase it. She also doesn't mention 401K. I have a lot of money going there, however, it's not a liquid as a savings account for that rainy day you get laid off or something else.
  

  
3. Open a freedom account. This is a second checking account that you pay for all the bills that are not monthly or regular. These irregular bills could include property taxes, Christmas fund, vacation, car maintenance, etc. She also includes clothing in this fund. While this didn't make sense to me, Enid mentioned if you have school-aged kids, you would have back-to-school clothing shopping as a once-a-year expense.
  

  
In our freedom account we started looking at Car, Appliances, Eye Glasses and Contacts, New Heater and Air Conditioner for house, Christmas and Birthday gifts, extra House payment. After adding all these numbers up it was rather daunting and the thought of not doing it crossed my mind. But Mary explains that you will have the irregular bills whether you have a Freedom Account or not. If you don't have it, the bill will become a crisis and will probably end up on a credit card.
  

  
4. Paying off unsecured debt: Credit cards, personal loans, etc. She proposes that you find out how much you are currently paying for unsecured debt. Let's say that number is $500. Begin paying the same amount to each bill that you normally do. Ignore the minimum payment due on the credit cards and continue to pay what you paid when you began. So every month you would pay $500 between your various debts even if the minimum you were required to pay was going down to $250. When you pay the first one off, roll the amount you are paying onto the next debt, so you are still paying $500 per month, but now you are paying more on one of the debts. When that second debt is paid, roll the payment onto the next debt. Still paying $500 a month, but snowballing the amount your paying to each debt. [Fool.com](http://www.fool.com) calls this the snowball method.
  

  
5. Reducing what you spend. While most plans I've seen start here, I thought it was interesing that we don't get to it until now. She gives pages and pages of ways to reduce how much you spend.
  

  
That's as far as I've gotten in the book. So far I love her ideas and I'll let you know as I learn more.
