---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2003-05-28 00:15:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/34
slug: '34'
title: No Content Found
wordpress_id: 34
---

**The Matrix oh-you-didn't-know-that-you-must-not-be-l33t Club**
  
I'm going to rant about this before it becomes a trend. So far, I've only seen it twice, but I don't want to see it anymore. Movies are beginning to become non-understandable if you don't read every magazine article, newspaper interview and internet site related to the movie before seeing it. I first noticed this in Star Wars 2 last summer. One of the main characters remains nameless the entire movie. He protests the formation of an army, he is obviously an ally of Senator Padme, and is shown as distressed as he watches with Palpatine as the clone army flies off from Coruscant at the end of the movie. If you went to see this moive as a non-fan-boy, you would have no idea who he was. In fact is was Bail Organa, a name that might mean something if you had seen the other movies. He's the adoptive father of Leia. Obi-Wan serves him during the Clone Wars. But the only way you would know this is if you had poured over StarWars.com and knew his entire history. We have no idea why he protests the formation of the army, why he allies himself with Padme or why he is distressed as the Clone Army embarks. Without knowing about the character before seeing the movie, we have no idea why he is even there.
  

  
Why must we already know the details of a movie before we see a movie? In the original 3 Star Wars movies, characters that you would not see for movies were referenced, specifically I'm thinking of Jabba. We wondered who he was, why Han was on the run from him, but he wasn't a central character of the first two movies. Here we have a central character and are told nothing about him. This is bothersome, but not nearly as bad as the Matrix. In Star Wars this character will most likely be explained in the third movie and is not central to the plot of the second. The Matrix is not this way.
  

  
We are introduced to three characters in the movie and given no explanation or deceptively complex explanations as to what they are. The first is Agent Smith. If you read all the introductions to the characters that ran in every newspaper and magazine, it said he is now a virus. In the movie we are not given this clear of an explanation. In one scene he describes himself as having changed when Neo defeated him (end of Matrix 1). He found he was no longer bound by the Matrix and it's rules no longer applied to him much as they did not apply to Neo. While he can duplicate himself like a virus and is not constrained as he was when he was a program, he also displays un-virus-like qualities: namely the ability to infect people even when they have left the Matrix (please tell me this will be explained in the third movie). 
  

  
Moreso are the two brothers who appear as almost completely white. Everything I read described them as even nastier viruses that Smith, but they are never described that way in the movie. In display no attributes that makes you think of them as a virus. A couple of days later I read that Warner Brothers was calling them ghosts which actually fits very well with the attributes they possessed and the context in which we met them. The point is, why do I have to discover these things by reading about the movie instead of by watchining it?
  

  
Now there are good ways in which the Matrix sequels accomplished fan-boy appeal without degrading the movie. The tie-ins to the movie are endless. There are 9 animated movies that all play into the background of the movie. Last Flight of Osiris was made by the same people that make Final Fantasy. It details the fate of the ship that obtained the information that 250,000 sentinels were digging to Zion. (I wonder if they sing that to the tune of Marching to Zion? We're digging to Zion, wonderful, wonderful Zion. We're digging our way to Ziiiiiiooooon, the last free city of humans.) The Osiris is mentioned by Niobe at the beginning of the movie. Niobe is also the subject of the game Enter the Matrix. This follows her during the scenes you do not see her in the movie. An extra hour of footage was shot while filming the two sequels that will never be seen in the movie, but only in the game. These are things that uber-fans can latch onto, but you don't have to see to understand the movie.
  

  
The last question I have to ask myself is Am I the one that's wrong? Are Star Wars and Matrix so fan specific that the directors could almost not tell half the story and just let the rest out like news releases or in tidbits on websites? This is much the way The Blair Witch created such buzz. Most of us knew the faked "background" of the film before seeing it. In fact, the film ended very badly unless you knew the "background" of the story. It seems that if you can't tell your story through your movie, but only through it's surrounding hype, you haven't told a very widely appealing story.
