---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2004-11-27 04:45:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/newsboys
slug: newsboys
title: Newsboys
wordpress_id: 105
---

It was spring 2001 the last time Enid and I went to see the Newsboys. I wanted to suprise Enid by buying tickets to a show that was coming this Sunday to KC, but Jason reminded me that that weekend was Thanksgiving and we were all going to be out of town; Enid and I to Salina. So much for seeing the Newsboys.
  

  
Then Enid surprised me. The Newsboys were going to be in Salina the day after Thanksgiving. So we went and saw them.
  

  
Todd Agnew opened for them. I only know him from his song Grace Like Rain. If you're only familiar with that song, like I was, you're in for a suprise: it's very different from his other songs. At the beginning of his set he announced he was from Memphis, Tennessee and that was very different from "all other Christian Music which comes from Nashville." He starts into his set and you realize he's a Blues singer. After his first or second song, he declared that he was going to teach us the Blues. After a few rules a lessons with the audiences participation, he said "that's better than I expected... Let's play some Kansas blues."
  

  
After his was Rebecca Saint James. I love her voice and her ministry, but it's always bugged me that she doesn't have a sound of her own. Her first album was a Tiffany knockoff. Her second was an Alanis Morriset knockoff. Her latest ones are boy band knockoffs. So I haven't kept up with her in a while, so I didn't know any of the songs, but she did a good job.
  

  
Newsboys were great as always. The set felt very informal. Since it was a smaller arena, it felt more intimate. And a couple times unplanned things happened that made them stop a bit or miss a line here and there: The first was when pillars of smoke blast from the stage and caused static electricity to build up in Phil Joels long hair to stand up in all directions. Peter Fuller looked over and saw it, laughed and had to stop. He came over, played with Phil's wayward strands and said "I hate it when that happens to _me_."
  

  
The second time was when he was singing "Breakfast Club" and backed up into the other guitar player. He laughed a missed a couple of lines. It was fun, because they were very relazed about it and it added to the feeling of a unique one-time experience that won't be repeated. 
  

  
Then came the time in every Christian concert where you slow down and have an alter call. While, I've always appreciated this in a concert. I've often wondered if artists weren't "preaching to the chior." Peter surprised me when he got up and talked instead about the importance of discipleship in his life. He encourage Christians to stop looking like the world and start reading their Bible. He announced that Newsboys had paid to print a devotional called [The Purple Book](http://www.newsboys.com/thepurplebook/index.html) for each person at the concert and encouraged each one to take it home, do the devotional and stop playing church. Iwas impressed by his emphasis on discipleship and also that The Purple Book is made by the same group that makes [One 2 One Discipleship](http://www.enpstore.com/detail.aspx?ID=8), a resource our youth group and other's in our church have used before.
  

  
We went to the merchandise tables afterward. Enid bought a Newsboys "Amazing Love" tee and I bought a Todd Agnew "Grace" beanie.
  

