---
author: Ora
comments: false
date: 2010-01-10 21:45:00+00:00
layout: post
link: http://www.martindale.org/blog/ora/talks/about/sledding
slug: sledding
title: Sledding
wordpress_id: 483
categories:
- Aspen
- Ora 4
- Ora 5
---

I took Ora 5 and Aspen sledding this afternoon. The hill by our church is a long hill and very popular, so many people had gone down it and packed the snow down. We had a great time. The first few runs were not very long as I was getting used to sledding again. Once a remembered how to steer a sled, we had good runs that went all the way down the hills (about 250-300 yards).  
  
Aspen saw the teenagers taking jumps over a ramp that they had built and decided that she wanted to try it. I sat as at the top of the hill and I started to get cold feet; the hill dropped quickly, got very bumpy and icy and then up the ramp. The guys who were going down as fast as they could were getting some good air on their jumps; some of them 5-6 feet. I asked Aspen if she was sure she wanted to do it and she said yes. So down the hill we went. I successfully steered us over the icy bumps and we hit the ramp well and we got air. We came back down hard and I heard Aspen, but I wasn't sure if she was laughing or crying. When we stopped she wasn't doing either and exclaimed "I hurt my bottom." Nevertheless, she wanted to do it again.  
  
We had a great time. One of the more interesting sleds was the top half of a car-top carrier that had two skis attached to the bottom of it. They were able to take 3-4 people down at a time and took it over the ramp a few times.
